same time Arab and Muslim leaders
they're Gathering today in Saudi Arabia
to discuss the Israel Gaza conflict
schedule Summits of the Arab League and
the organization of Islamic cooperation
have been merged in response to the
situation in Gaza well that's the scene
in Riad Let's Take You There live now
with our security correspondent Frank
Gardner who's there and Frank just talk
us through what we might expect to hear
from this Summit what will they want to
achieve
today right well this is an extra
ordinary event in the sense that I can't
think of a similar event that has
brought together 57 Muslim nations
together with the Arab League at a time
like this it's been called an emergency
Summit although one militant group in
Gaza has said well it's hardly an
emergency Summit if it's taking place 35
days into the war nevertheless they are
going to try to come up with a unified
response which the gist of which is
going to be a call for an immediate
ceasefire in Gaza and more humanitarian
Aid an end to Israeli occupation of
Palestinian territories but behind the
scenes what's really interesting is what
Arab ministers are telling me they don't
want to be quoted personally on it but
the stuff they're saying is really quite
worrying I think for the West which is
that they are accusing the West
specifically the United States but also
the UK of double standards of hypocrisy
they're saying you the West condemned
Russia for its killing of civilians in
Ukraine yet when it comes to Gaza that
condemnation is either muted or pretty
absent and interestingly the deputy
Secretary General of the Arab League has
given an interview to a Saudi newspaper
in which he says actually Russia and
China understand this region better than
the West does now he doesn't speak for
everybody here obviously but that's a
worrying Trend I think there is a
feeling of Despair that the West is not
doing enough to rein in what's going on
in Gaza this horrendous Rising death
toll of civilians um and don't forget
that the West has got a lot of bases
here the Americans have got military
bases in Kuwait in Oman in the Emirates
and so on but you speak to delegates
from those countries and they're really
quite embarrassed at The Stance of the
West on this they look most of the
countries coming here they're not
particularly fond of Hamas I mean Iran
is here they are the Iranian delegation
is here I've Just Seen president Ibrahim
RI walk past me a few minutes ago um and
that's unusual in itself for him to come
to Saudi Arabia but most of them are not
particularly fond of Hamas but all of
that is on the back burner compared to
the enormous anxiety and angst that
people are feeling at this Rising death
toll and there's something else which is
a concern that are on the streets and in
the cafes and in people's living rooms
there is a rising anger here in this Reg
region at this death toll at the fact
that the West seems to be incapable of
stopping the Carnage in Gaza and people
worry that that could get out of control
and lead to
radicalization and Frank many people
will know that organizations including
the UN have been trying to come to some
sort of consensus or agreement on what
its response would be to the conflict
between Israel and Gaza what hopes are
there that this Summit will be unified
aligned in issuing a respon that states
the position of the members there at
that
Summit well they're going to have to go
for the lowest common to nominator you
know the Iranians are going to want to
push further I think than the Saudis
will so they're not not everybody's
going to get exactly what they want so
president IIM RI the Iranian president a
few hours ago as he left Teran airport
he said this isn't a time for talking
this is a Time for Action that's not not
necessarily how um people in the
conservative governments in this region
feel because they are very worried about
escalation remember that Iran supports
what's known as proxy militias the
houthis in Yemen Hezbollah in Lebanon
various militias in Syria and Iraq those
are not supported by Saudi Arabia and
its Gulf Arab allies so there are
differences of opinions which is why I
think they're going to go for as I say
the lowest common denominator which is
to say stop stop the fighting have a
ceasefire immediately not just a
humanitarian Paws but a ceasefire get
more humanitarian Aid in and pursue a
long-term solution to the Palestinian
Israeli question they want to see an end
to Israeli occupation of Palestinian
territories they're saying otherwise
this is just going to go on in an
endless cycle of violence Frank as
always good to have you there thank you
that's Frank Gardner our security
correspondent live in Riad we'll be back
with you if there are any further
developments as far as that Summit is
concerned